
Greeks: Used to measure how sensitive the price of an option is to various factors.

Call Option:
    Buy: speculation that the price will increase above strike price, buy it to get a "guarantee" on delivery of shares at strike price
    Sell: akin to getting paid to guarantee delivery of shares at the strike price.

Put Option:
    Buy: speculation that the price will fall, buy it to "guarantee" liquidity for your holdings / ability to sell your shares at strike price
    Sell: akin to getting paid to insure against the price falling, "guarantee' purchase of shares at strike price.

Delta (Δ) - Sensitive to underlying price
    Change in option price for a $1 change in the price of the underlying asset.

    Call Option: Delta ranges from 0-1.
    Put Option: Delta ranges from -1 to 0

    Eg:
    A delta of 0.6 means the option price increases by $0.6 if the underlying rises by $1.

    Also represents the hedge ratio:
    Owning 1 call with delta 0.5 = owning 0.5 shares of the stock.

Gamma (Γ) - Sensitivity of Delta to the underlying price.
    Rate of change of delta per $1 change in the underlying price

    High near the money, low deep ITM/OTM (in the money / out the money)

    Eg:
    A gamma of 0.05 means delta will change by 0.05 for each $1 move in the underlying

    Used to manage risk of non-linear exposure (esp in hedging)

Theta (Θ) - Sensitivity to Time (Time Decay)
    Change in option price with the passage of one day, assuming everything else is constant

    Usually Negative as Options lose value as expiration approaches especially for long positions

    Call & Put both have negative theta for long positions. (Does that mean that they have positive theta for short positions?)

    Eg:
    A theta of -0.03 means the option loses 0.03 in value per day.

Vega (ν) - Sensitivity to volatiltiy
    Change in option price for a 1 percentage point change in implied volatility

    Call & Put both have positive Vega for long positions (Does that mean short positons have negative vega? )

    Eg:
        A vega of 0.1 means that option price increases by $0.1 if implied volatility increases by 1%.

Rho (ρ) - Sensitivity to interest rate changes
    Change in option price for a 1% change in the risk-free interest rate.

    Call Options: Positive rho (value increaes as rate rises)

    Put Options: Negative rho (value decreases as rates rise)

    Less important in low-rate environments or short-dated Options



S0: Current price of the underlying asset
K: Strike price
T: Time to maturity (in years)
r: Risk-free interest rate
σ: Volatility of the underlying
N(⋅): CDF of the standard normal distribution


